Malcolm's surname isn't his real one, obviously. He changed it to something
silly to protect his identity after joining the spec ops. After his wife got
killed however, he saw no point in going back to it, nor his past life.

His real name is Malcolm MacReady - a Scottish family with a long-lost tradition
in occultism he was completely clueless about, which would explain some things
going in his life. Malcolm's powers and ability to chug down two liters of
whiskey in one fell swoop and five packs of cigs a day - those are not
something you'd expect from a regular human, yet it never struck him as any bit
of odd, dealing with other supernatural beings in his long-lasting career, first
as an average cop, then as a part of spec ops.

His ancestors made a pact with an archdemon called Salvathar, the anti-thesis of
a savior - a monumental sonovabitch of a demon that could make a seat out of
Mt. Everest for himself. He looked like he was made entirely of finely-chiseled
obsidian, ornated with intricate patterns made of still-running, liquid lava
so hot and volatile that slamming your face into the sun's surface would be
a cold breeze in comparison. He can be called Sal by friends who he can count
on one hand now (and if you feel exceptionally suicidal, just call him Sally).
Salvathar was a demon so powerful and dangerous (if the legends of his horns
piercing the ground of the Heavens while standing at the very bottom of Hell
itself speaks any) that the other demons and Baphomet himself felt threatened
enough to banish him into Limbo - the place where you truly are screwed,
regardless if you even think about attempting to leave it or not.

That didn't stop ol' Sal from doing so, twice at that even, as he climbed the
endless towers of Limbo, reaching back to reality with relative ease and speed,
whereas others have eternally failed. He repaid in kindness by tearing
Metropolis of Dis a new asshole in exchange for their rude thanking for
his service, or even a couple new, burning assholes at that. His demonic
brethren had to figure out a plan B for containing him. 

They finally sealed him away in a place called the Seam - a rather tight and
unreachable by any possible means realm between Hell as you know and the Limbo
itself, a place only Bapho knew about and wanted to keep real tight-lipped about
it, given the risks of opening that can of worms. The beings that could be
brought through the seam are as bad, if not even worse than Salvathar himself.
The situation however called for extreme measures, as killing him was seemingly
out of order, unless they wanted to have the entirety of demonic population fall
victim to him in the process.

Ever since they managed to seal him away, Salvathar was stuck, making desperate
attempts at reaching any soul or soulless being that might help him get out of
that place. He eventually got in contact with the Scottish clan of MacReadies
as they attempted, very clumsily so, an occult session for laughs in the comfy
interiors of their castle's walls. That however worked in Sal's favor, as they
botched it so badly they somehow made a reach towards him within the Seam, which
was deemed impossible by regular means of demonic contact. He offered his wealth
of incredible power, still able to pierce through the veil of Seam by means of
a willingful vessel, in exchange for freedom - altering their bloodline for
a thousand years to get a perfect candidate to finally break him out of his
eternal prison.

Thus Malcolm and Vladimir respectively got caught in a game of bigger players,
where Vlad thought he had a perfect army of stupid, obedient demons abiding
to his supreme intellect - the demons just needed some tool of a person they
could fool into doing their bidding, which could help them stop the night train,
coming their way. But the foolish mad scientist only made things worse, and now
they are scared shitless. Salvathar's Chosen was making his way through,
bringing the archdemon's wrath on the way, empowered by an endless stream of
entertainment and thrills the beast found in hectoliters of spilled blood,
spiced with copious amounts of whiskey and nicotine. Now the question was whether
they wanted to cooperate with Malcolm to break that contract with the archdemon
or try and slay him as-is. So far the latter didn't quite pan out, and the
closer he gets to freeing him, the possibility of them turning it around becomes
ever so slimmer...